---
layout: default
titel: Angebote
kennung: prospect
---


On the basis of the presented results and the experience gained in the project, clear pillars for a project of this measure can be formulated. Individual skills of the students should be considered. There should be fixed guidelines in project management. Students probably do not have much experience in cross-department project management. None of the participants will be able to keep an overview of the whole project, as everyone will be responsible for their own area. Possibly. One could use volunteer students or master students as project managers. The tools can be predefined, but they do not. The communication came about intuitively, since, however, the students whose work has been evaluated have shown more initiative, one should consider possibly all students before the same situation. If each member knows that his work is being evaluated, everyone has the same motivation at best. Nevertheless, a Scrum Board would be very helpful for everyone. If possible, firstly develop stories from which small workpackages can be laced. By using the Scrum Board, all participants can then see how far the project or the partial task has been processed. In summary, it can be said that such a project is very useful to carry out these framework conditions. Especially for advanced students, this would be a way to test his abilities and to almost sniff real project air. Nevertheless, the students should have a kind of guide available. The basic conditions are important. In doing so, one should not limit itself to technologies, but should pay more attention to the functionality or scope of the project. The division into tasks would ensure that everyone knows in which task area he has to work.
