---
layout: post
title:  "Introduction"
date:   2017-06-02 21:03:13 +0200
---
# Summary
An international project was carried out as part of the „Digital communication“ event. To optimize
this , I will discuss various aspects of the event and descripe my expirience. Furthermore , the
proposals should be used to weigh up proposals for soulutions. This is, however , only the personal
experience within the project as a team member.

# The Project

The event was designed as a pilot project for future projects of this kind. Students from the countries
of France, Germany, Portugal, Greece and Bulgaria were to collaborate on a project collaboratively, in
mixed teams. The students should organize themselves completely independently. No tools were
provided for this. The students came from various fields, such as computer science, design and
communication. The project was started with an initial event in which all participating countries
received a briefing by videoconferencing. Afterwards, the work was carried out in the form of a multi-
page document. The task and information was written in English.
No milestones or timetables were specified. In total, the project had to be carried out about 10 days.
The challenge was to reorganize within an international team and to complete the work assignment
as successfully as possible. At the end of the event, the French participants were graded for their
achievements and had to present their own project to the customers. It was foreseen that the non-
French participants would also participate in the presentation.

# Retrospective

In principle one must say that all resutls were relatively postitiv. The team was very good and there
were no problems within the team members. After a bumpy start-up phase, all the team members
had found themselves and after a while they decided to go for the Slak platform. At first we tried to
find out which team member ould do what they could to get the right tasks. In out team, there were
a total of 3 to 4 developers, 2 designers and the rest came from the marketing and communication.
In order to divide the tasks again smaller groups were formed which should act among themselves. At
first, it was clear quite quickly that the developers had almost nothing to do at the beginning, since
they had not received any work assignments yet. The project members from the marketing sector
were very busy with their campaign. However, since none of these project members had experience
in IT / project management, there were some problems. In the first step, the computer scientists
would have had to ask for, or have had to develop, requirements for the system so that they could get
a rough picture of the future architecture. It was unclear to the computer what exactly the plan of the
rest of the group was. A sidemap has been developed in the course of this process in order to
visualize which parts of the portal should exist. A sidemap made it clear which parts of the portal had
to be created, but no requirements or specifications were developed. Since it is difficult to build a
system without requirements or specifications, only one clickdummy was developed.

It would have been much easier if there was a clear framework. If one knew which technology or
which components are needed, one would have had to spend much less time in the consideration
and planning.
# Conclusion
Overall the project was successful. Since everyone with a different motivation or a different
expectation of the project approached, one can not assume that each the same experience could
take with them. It was surprising how much you could create in an international team with different
group members. Unfortunately, there were difficulties in the planning of the project. Because each
country had a different motivation in the project, the relationship was a little unbalanced. For us from
Germany it was rather an experience, which is why we did not have the pressure like the French. I
think it would look different if the project were carried out as a full-fledged event. Alternatively, the
event could be held as an optional subject during a project week.
Since my expectations of the project were very special, I have been a little disappointed. However, I
had to realize that such a pilot project should not expect too much, just because it is not clear how
the event is taking place.