---
layout: post
title:  "Concept"
date:   2017-05-28 21:03:13 +0200
---
# introduction
After I described the project from my point of view and looked at the individual aspects which have
gone well and not so well I will now explain and weigh up an approach for future projects.

# Project management methods
Within the framework of a student project it is possible to use a modified scrum methodology. Of
course you could add a few static elements, such as fixed taxes or deadlines. It would be a great
advantage if the students were given a kind of scrum board, in which each student would be given
assignments. The tasks would then be more clearly distributed. One could also see how far a task is.
Due to the various columns in the Scrum-Board (Open, in work, Review and Finished) you would also
have less effort in assessing progress as a customer and "project manager" or product owner. This
ensures that you can recognize where any help or resources are needed. This could be helpful
especially with short projects.
But to use a scum board you need tasks or items. This actually originates before a sprint1. Since,
however, there is no real sprint and no sprint planning available to the students, in which items can
be presented by the product owner, it is a good idea. The items could be described relatively roughly,
which would mean that the teams would be able to look at these items in more detail and work out
the appropriate new items for everyone. This could happen collaboratively in the early days.